And it was bizarre like as I was
searching
different things on the internet like uh
maybe there's a way to do it with like
bandaid or maybe use some you know
banded resistance
variable resistance and so because that
that seemed to be like a term that might
be you know oh variable resistance thing
and so then I looked at a couple of
different studies who have done what I
thought should be done where you know
higher loading where you're stronger,
lower loading where you're less strong.
And uh it was the thing. And then of
course inevitably as I'm reading this
research, he was like Westside Barbbout
was everything. Like it always led back
to what started Westside Barmell.
>> [music]
>> Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to
tell you the story about how we got here
and specifically how the three of us are
sitting here at Westside Barbell in
Columbus, Ohio. And and currently I'm
being flanked by the CEO of Westside
Barbell, Tom Barry. Mr. Barry, how are
you? It's better to be here.
>> And I am also flanked by the creator of
X3, somebody all of you guys know, Dr.
John Jquist.
>> I've even though it's not really
matching the California weather.
>> No, no. Ohio definitely has much more
fresh weather.
>> Fresh weather. It's a downgrade. Fresh.
>> It's very fresh, too.
>> It's a downgrade for the dock whenever
he comes to visit. But all of us want to
explain what we're doing here together,
how this came to be. And I'm going to
start that by getting a little bit of an
introduction for what Westside Barbell
is, what the the brief history of
Westside Barbell is. We're going to talk
about how X3 came to be. And then we're
going to kind of break down for you why
we're here and what the synergy is
between these two monster organizations
that don't on the surface look that
closely related. Tom, Westside Barbell,
maybe people have seen the t-shirts.
Maybe they've they've heard about
something on Netflix. They've heard the
name. This hardcore place.
>> What is it?
>> What is Westside?
>> That is a that is the million-dollar
question. Well, Westside started as
basically the first garage gym style
setting with Louis Simmons at the helm
of which he took people from his local
neighborhood and they came in to form
one of the most formidable uh
powerlifting dynasties of all time. Um
it grew into a private training facility
of where the strongest powerlters in the
world trained out of uh using the
conjugate method of training and
[snorts] Louie was able to instill a
culture and value set within the
athletes he had here to get the absolute
most out of them. Um I could probably go
on for two hours over the history but
the key but briefly that is it and when
Louis passed um I took up the caretaking
role of ensuring his legacy um never
gets tarnished his uh information
education gets pushed and that we take
the new chapter with all our athletes
who are all proathletes not powerlifters
and to showcase the history and the
education that they provided can be
transmitted into far more wide range of
disciplines.
>> Cool. So, one thing that I think is
important, like when people look at
fitness information on the internet,
influencers, whatever, if somebody's
been around for a year or two years,
it's a it's a long time. Yeah.
>> In internet land,
>> Westside barbell has existed from the
garage gym to today. For how long?
>> Started in 72.
>> That is decades.
>> Oh, decades. And
>> decades and decades. has been producing
records and athletes non-stop. We've
always had a facility. We've always had
athletes in here. And we use this as our
living laboratory. This is where we
trial and error stuff. We put out what
works. We tell people what didn't work.
And it's been tried and tested the
recipe from Louis from the day of his
VHS tapes to the content we put out now.
>> That's a perfect That's a perfect
backdrop. We've got something that's
existed now for
five decades. Producing records,
producing champions, producing VHS
tapes. And some of the people who watch
this might not even know what that is.
But
>> my wife just VHS tape. [laughter]
>> We'll find a picture. We'll put that up.
We'll get a VHS so we can demo what that
is. Producing records, writing multiple
books. Westside comes with a legacy. Now
we have a relatively new in terms of
that length of time,
>> right?
>> Creation in terms of X3 that's taken
hundreds of thousands of people by storm
in terms of what they're doing with
their fitness.
>> Sure.
>> Where did X3 come from?
>> Very different place than than Westside.
And I I wish that he said if I haven't
regretted lights that I never got the
chance to really sit down with Luke
Simmons and go here's what I'm thinking
for both. How does this relate to what
you're doing? And I I it probably would
have been one of the best conversations.
Uh
because
I came at this completely from a medical
perspective. Uh so I developed a series
of medical devices uh called osteior and
there's osteo clinics there's 300 are in
15 different countries 300 clings 15
different countries uh and and so the
machines are impact emulation devices.
So what they do and what I what I
developed them to do and I actually I
developed the entire thing to treat my
mother's osteoporsis. So, I first built
one in the garage of my parents house.
Uh, I live in San Francisco, so I didn't
have a garage. Uh, [clears throat]
built it there and was treating my both
my parents. Basically, I had my dad do
it just so he can say to my mom like,
"Don't worry, it's not going to hurt
you." uh because she was not really
interested in doing some, you know,
heavy exercise thing where the equipment
was literally made out of giant blocks
of wood, chains, there was a bunch of
sensors, uh load cells hooked to these
chains and then it it came off to a
couple of different readout screens. So,
the first one it really looked like a
science experiment in your garage and
that's what it was. So, uh, and then the
pads were just basically old beach
towels like wrapped with like duct tape
like to just keep keep everything in
place. So, it was relatively
comfortable,
but never really was comfortable. Uh,
and so that that was how I got that
started. And the whole idea was I want
to emulate high impact. So like just as
an illustration of my upper extremities,
if I trip and fall and I have the
ability to brace myself for that fall,
if I if I catch the fall, I'm going to
put my hands out like this, back of the
hand in line with the clavicle, 120
degree angle from upper lower arm. So I
I can either absorb or produce the
greatest amount of force in this
position. And so and that that same
geometry applies in the lower trainees,
same applies in spine, same applies to
the core if you're if you're trying to
engage the core. So I had four
movements, upper, lower, core, and spine
that emulated the positioning you take
to absorb high impact force. And so that
was all four machines. They're all
computerized. Uh they became robotic.
And so they the robotic arms would move
everything in a position so that each
person would do it each time. There were
no adjustment. It was exactly the same
every time. So the bar, you know, you
grab onto the bar and you're basically
compressing bone in this position. The
bar and the and the seat always have the
same relationship. So that's never a
variable. Brazil no setup variables that
are going to influence how much force
you can produce. So
when when doing that uh the first
clinical trial for prototype uh it was
even before osteo
um was in London and I talk about this
all the time uh the the physician so it
took took place at hospital and they
were treating their patients or the
subjects of the study and then uh the
the people who worked at the hospital
some who were osteopedic which means
like pre- osteoporosis or osteoporotic
which means they had low b low density
or risk of fragility fracture they said
hey can we can we use the device too
they weren't going to be test subjects
they just wanted to use it it's there
okay yeah it's great funny u now I only
participated in this in the study before
it started because I wanted to be there
to make sure set it up and use it
correctly because the worst thing is
somebody goes and does a study on
something and then they use that thing
incorrectly and it's just like okay like
this is
>> a waste
>> everybody's time and money so I wanted
to make sure it was going to even
>> so they started the doctors that work at
the facility and the nurses they were
doing it and they were becoming
incredibly strong now they're training
their bone mass but to compress bone in
those optimized positions you're
recruiting an incredible amount of
muscle in a very brief brief period and
probably the maximum amount of muscle
you can ever recruit is in those
specific positions. So very similar to
the toe strike position in in a sprint
right where you tow strike and you got
seven degrees of flexion behind the knee
and you explode with the quadricep to
propel yourself forward. most efficient
position which is why sprinting is the
way sprinting is we just use the
efficient positions. So it was going to
be like that in a much more controlled
environment measuring every state. And
what I really came to see as the
conclusion is the human body is capable
of incredible
force production and absorption.
But in fitness we don't do anything with
that like it's not touched. And to me
and I had also attempted to be as fit as
possible up until that point. And I had
lifted weights for 20 years. I really
didn't get much out of it. Uh I don't
think I looked particularly fit or
anything. I think I looked pretty
average. Uh and and so I was like
looking at this and I'm thinking,
wow, if you apply this to fitness,
we're really leaving a lot of capability
on the table. Because if you're limiting
what you can move with your chest to
what you can hold back here in the
stretch range of motion, also called the
weak range of motion, then it's going to
be lower than what your actual
capability is, which may be seven times
greater. It is in the lower extre. So,
I'm just extrapolating that like all
over. It's not necessarily ever
different, but [clears throat]
if I can load the body in a more
efficient way, we can get more force
through the muscle, cause greater
exhaustion, and trigger more growth. And
that was just conceptually what was
going on in my head. And then and it was
bizarre like I was searching
different things on the internet like uh
maybe there's a way to do it with like
band-aid or maybe use some do you know
banded resistance,
variable resistance and I tell you
because that that seemed to be like a
term that might be you know oh variable
resistance is thing and so then I looked
at a couple of different studies who
have done what I thought should be done
where you know higher loading where
you're stronger lower loading where
you're less strong and uh it was a thing
and then of course inevitably as I'm
reading this research he was like
Westside Barbbout was everything like It
always led back to what started at
Westside Barmell and I thought like wow
like
what we need now I mean I was completely
sold on very resistance or accommodating
resistance as you guys call it uh but it
was like how do we get this in the hands
of everybody because the problem is
there's only one west side of
>> arbit
and and not everybody can get to
Columbus Ohio so
how do I take that that knowledge take
all this research literature and also I
I caution even even my fans like
I can tell you what the science says I
can't tell you what athletes are doing
because
that's not what I do and and I explain
this also we when I go and talk to a
strength coach I just show them what X3
can do and it's like you apply it how
you see fit I don't ever want to step on
a strength coach's toes because the
strength coach has an education that I
don't like just because of my PhD in
biomedical engineering means I might
know maybe 1% of what you guys do. It's
not like there's a whole lot of overlap
there. So, it's best when I just teach,
you know, how to use the tool. And the
entire time I had been launching X3,
talking about X3, I thought, well, you
know, like I I really wish I could talk
to Louis Simmons. I really would want
see if he saw it the way I saw it. And
it was the kind of thing where and I
actually heard Louis was a difficult
guy. I was turns out he's not at all.
>> Awesome. And yeah, and I I think I think
a lot of people had
maybe not approached
Westside with the most respectful uh
which happened a lot in the fitness
industry. It was a lot of unnecessary
disrespect and uh so I I think you know
we picked who we wanted to work with and
some people we just thought were
disrespectful. So, uh, I never ended up
talking about it, but now in talking to
you guys, I realize that
we were in the same struggle like
exactly the same thing. Uh, I was just
coming at it from a perspective of we
need this packaged so we can go anywhere
with it because gyms clearly, you know,
since the 90s, we've known variable
resistance was superior. It is
absolutely
hands down obvious when you read the
research. Like the research on variable
resistance shows it is so staggering how
much [music] more effective it is than a
regular weight training. Yet equipment
manufacturers just never [music] really
seem to care very much. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights. We've got the answer
for you. [music]